The theme for this program is, be childlike, but not childish.
First Corinthians chapter 14, verse 20, is our theme scripture.
Brothers, do not become young children in your understanding, but be young children as
to badness and become full grown in your understanding.
In this single verse, we're told not to be like a young child in one way, and we're told
to be like a young child in another way.
We should not be like a child when it comes to understanding, and we should be like a
child when it comes to badness.
In this discussion, let's focus on three ways we should not be like a child, and then
let's talk about three ways we should be like a child.
Please turn to Hebrews chapter 5, verses 13 and 14, and let's identify negative trait number
one that we do not want to imitate.
For everyone who continues to feed on milk is unacquainted with the word of righteousness,
for he is a young child, but solid food belongs to mature people, to those who through
use have their powers of discernment trained to distinguish both right and wrong.
So the negative trait that children have is immature feeding habits.
Think about it.
Young children have a tendency to eat what they like regardless of its nutritional value.
Most young ones would be perfectly happy eating ice cream candy, cookies, and other sweets
for all of their meals.
But now we ask, what do our spiritual appetites and feeding habits reveal about us?
Consider how do we spend our free time?
Do we squander voluminous hours watching television or reading material that provides
little or no spiritual nutrition?
Or do we make wise use of our free time to take in solid spiritual food?
When we receive a new issue of the watchtower, do we merely scan through it, looking at
a few highlights, and then do something else?
Do we take time to research deeper spiritual truths so as to fully understand them?
Do we take time to really meditate?
Meditation is not daydreaming.
Meditation is bridal, focused, thought.
Pause your reading to ask questions such as, what does this teach me about Jehovah?
With whom can I share this information?
What's Jehovah telling me?
How does this fit in with other things I know about this subject?
How can I make application?
James 125 encourages us to peer into God's Word.
According to the reference Bible, peer literally means to stoop beside.
To illustrate, simply reading through the Bible could be likened to walking quickly through
the world's greatest museum and periodically glancing at the various displays.
You'll learn something.
But meditatively peering into God's Word can be likened to stopping all along the museum
route, and even stooping down, and closely examining from different angles, the artifacts,
exhibitions, and displays.
Now our knowledge and appreciation are going to be enhanced much more.
Yes, our spiritual appetite and feeding habits reveal much about whether we have done
away with the trait of a young child, namely, immature feeding habits.
Now please turn to Ephesians chapter 4, verse 14.
Let's discern from this scripture negative trait number 2 that we all want to imitate.
So we should no longer be children, tossed about as by waves, and carried here and there
by every wind of teaching, by means of the trickery of men, by means of cunning and
deceptive schemes.
So what's the negative trait?
Young children are easily tricked or fooled.
This scripture likens being easily tricked about what's right or wrong to being tossed
about by the waves of the ocean and blown around by the wind.
If you think of a piece of wood floating in a turbulent ocean or a piece of paper in
a windstorm, there's no stability or direction.
Both can be easily maneuvered to go anywhere.
Like any position.
Well, that's true of very young children who often can be easily deceived, for example.
If given a choice between a shiny coin of little value and paper money of great value,
the shiny coin will likely be chosen.
But now here's the point.
What do our spiritual choices reveal about us?
Do our choices in regard to music and other entertainment, clothing, and grooming indicate
that we're being fooled even slightly by Satan and his world?
Yes, Satan has bent on tricking us.
But Jehovah tells us, in 1 Corinthians 14, 20, the scripture we read earlier, do not become
young children in your understanding.
But now please turn to Matthew chapter 11, 16 and 17.
Here we'll find the third negative trait of a child that we do not want to imitate.
With whom will I compare this generation?
It is like young children sitting in the marketplaces who call out to their playmates, saying,
we played the flute for you, but you did not dance.
We wailed, but you did not beat yourselves in grief.
Jesus was saying that adult people were acting like children.
Children love to play.
So the negative trait of young children is that they prefer play over responsibility.
Think about it.
The vast majority of the waking hours of a small child are spent playing.
Play, play, and more play.
Most of their life is fun in games.
But later, when the child goes to school, what does he get the time to do so?
He has to take it from his playtime.
But now, spiritually speaking, we can ask ourselves, how far have we progressed in buying
out time from our playtime?
Ephesians 5.16 encourages us to make the best use of our time.
Literally, according to the footnote, this scripture is telling us to buy out the appointed
time.
That is, buy it from less important things.
So the question for all of us is, have we bought out the majority of our playtime for
more important spiritual responsibilities?
Now we've discussed three negative traits of a young child that we want to avoid.
If we had time, we could have discussed other negative traits to be avoided, such as,
children tend to have a short attention span.
They're easily distracted.
Their curiosity often gets them into trouble.
And they generally need a lot of time and attention.
They're high maintenance.
But now, let's briefly discuss three positive traits of a young child that we do well
to imitate.
The characteristic number one is in 1 Corinthians 1420, which we read at the outset.
That scripture tells us to, quote, be young children as to badness.
So what's the characteristic that we want to imitate?
Young children are innocent, inexperienced, when it comes to badness.
Or put another way, they haven't done many truly bad things.
Like children, we don't want to gain knowledge or experience in what is bad.
For example, when it comes to pornography, we want no experience whatsoever in regard
to this filthy thing of Satan's world.
When it comes to television programs that are designated for a mature audience, remember
to tell yourself, I'm not old enough.
I'm a young child.
For positive characteristic number two, let's consider Matthew chapter 18, verses 2-4.
So calling a young child to him, he, Jesus, stood him in their midst and said, truly I say
to you, unless you turn around and become as young children, you will buy no means enter
into the kingdom of the heavens.
Therefore, whoever will humble himself like this young child is the one who is the greatest
in the kingdom of the heavens.
What's the desirable trait?
Young children are humble and teachable.
Young children ask many questions, because they want to learn.
But grownups are often hesitant to ask questions, why?
They don't want to look uninformed.
But acting like we know something when we don't, is actually dishonest, and probably
motivated by pride.
The point is, don't be afraid to reveal what you don't know.
Remain humble and teachable like a child.
Now, let's identify desirable trait number three by going to Matthew 21, 15, and 16.
When the chief priest and the scribe saw the marvelous things he did, and the boys who
were shouting in the temple, save we pray the Son of David.
They became indignant and said to him, do you hear what these are saying?
Jesus said to them, yes, did you never read this out of the mouth of children and infants,
you have brought forth praise?
So what desirable characteristic can we identify?
Young children are exuberant and enthusiastic.
But in like manner, we want to remain exuberant and expressive about Jehovah, Jesus, the
kingdom, and other spiritual things.
Some 145.7 encourages us to bubble over and shout joyfully because of these wonderful
things, and we never want to lose that childlike enthusiasm.
So there we have three desirable traits of a young child that we want to do our utmost
to imitate.
If we had time, we could discuss several other positive characteristics such as children
tend to be trusting, not prejudiced, and not hypocritical.
But now in review, may each of us prayerfully strive not to be childish when it comes to
number one, immature feeding habits.
Number two, being easily tricked or fooled, and number three, preferring play over responsibility.
On the other hand, may each of us prayerfully strive to be childlike when it comes to being
number one, innocent, and inexperienced concerning badness.
Number two, humble and teachable, and number three, exuberant and enthusiastic about spiritual